6 New York English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 Minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil.
And I'm Beth. In our lifetime, one in five people will be affected by cancer.
A disease where cells grow uncontrollably and cause tumours in the body.
Chumours can be benign, meaning not cancerous or malignant, meaning cancerous.
And in 2022, there were an estimated 9.7 million deaths from malignant cancers worldwide.
But in this program, we'll be focusing on some good news instead.
Vaccines are medicine which protects the human body by making it immune from a certain disease.
And now there's been a sudden and important discovery, a breakthrough in the development of a new vaccine called mRNA.
So, could a vaccine for cancer soon become a reality?
That's what we'll be finding out as well as learning some useful new words and phrases.
And remember, if you like listening to 6 Minute English and want to read along at the same time,
you can find a transcript for the program on our website, bbcLearningEnglish.com
Now I have a question for you, Beth. We've mentioned some of the most recent vaccines, but which disease did the first successful vaccine treat?
Was it a flu, bbulio, or c smallpox?
Ooh, I'm going to say polio.
Okay, well we'll find out the correct answer at the end of the program.
You might wonder why the body's immune system doesn't fight cancer automatically.
The reason is that cancer has clever ways of hiding from unnatural defenses as Dr. Meredith McKeen, director of research at Tennessee on ecology,
explained to bbc world service program the inquiry.
There's been a number of studies that have demonstrated the different techniques that the cancer has developed
to be able to put up signals or proteins essentially on the surface of the cancer cells
to tell the immune system go away. There's nothing here to look at.
And so it's actually been hijacking these receptors to essentially tell the immune system to kind of take the breaks off
and be more aggressive in fighting cancer that's really allowed a breakthrough with the immune therapy over the past decade.
Dr. McKeen says that a number of studies have demonstrated how cancer spreads.
She uses the phrase a number of to mean several, but it also makes her statement more convincing
because of course several studies are better than just one.
Cancer cells switch off the immune system by pretending to be healthy cells.
It's like they're saying nothing to see here.
An informal phrase which can be used to encourage people to move or look away from something
either in a playful way or to cover something up.
For example, a police officer at a crime scene might say nothing to see here to move people on.
So in other words, cancer hijacks healthy cells.
It takes control of something which doesn't belong to it and uses it for its own advantage.
So how would a vaccine change things?
Well, existing treatments like chemotherapy are aggressively target the cancer,
but also attack healthy tissue creating unpleasant side effects.
New breakthrough vaccines on the other hand retrain the immune system to recognize cancer cells
and eliminate those and only those naturally, even in patients with the disease already.
Here's Professor Eduardo Sanchez of the Anderson Cancer Center in Texas,
explaining more to BBC World Services the inquiry.
Basically, the cancer cell started telling the immune system Donna Takumi,
Don't eat me, right?
The immune system has forgotten how to go about recognizing those cancer cells,
becoming blind to recognize those operations that cancer cells generate.
And what we want to do with vaccines is to re-evaluate the immune system.
In cancer patients, the immune system is blind to cancerous growths.
It completely fails to notice them or be aware of their danger.
So the vaccine re-educates the immune system or teaches it to behave in a different way.
To recap, some cancer treatments work by unblocking our blocked natural defenses,
whereas vaccines retrain the immune system to find an attack cancer cells naturally.
Because these two approaches are quite different, they can be used together and individually.
So to answer my original question, Neil, a vaccine for cancer might not be too far away.
But how about your question, isn't it time you revealed the answer?
I asked which disease was first successfully treated by a vaccine.
And I said, polio was I right.
You were wrong, I'm afraid, the correct option was C, which is smallpox.
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned in this program starting with breakthrough,
a sudden dramatic and important discovery.
A number of something means several or many and can add credibility to what you say.
The phrase nothing to see here is used to discourage people from paying attention or looking to closely at something or to move them away.
If you hijack something, you use something that doesn't belong to you for your own benefits.
Being blind to something means failing to notice it or recognize it as a threat.
And finally to re-educate means to teach somebody to think or behave in a new or different way.
Once again, our six minutes are up.
But if you're hungry for more, head over to our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com,
where you can find a worksheet for this program and it has a quiz in it.
Good luck and we'll see you again soon. Bye for now.
Goodbye.